#"26 Years of Word Processors Missing the Bleedin' Obvious"


 I have used the same basic document layout since I first wrote a school project on a giant ICL dedicated word processor in my Dad&#39;s office in 1985. The same layout through Wordperfect 5.1, Word for MSDOS, Word for Windows v1.0-2007, OpenOffice/LibreOffice and Google Docs. <p /><div>I bet you use the same layout:</div><div><ol><li>Title Page</li><li>Table of Contents</li><li>Section 1 (with header and footer on all following pages)</li><li>Section 1.1</li><li>Section 1.1.1</li><li> Section 2</li><li>...</li><li>...</li><li>...</li><li>Section N</li><li>Section N.n</li></ol><div>Why then, after 26 years does Microsoft/Google/Sun/Oracle give us a bloody blank template? The template we _all_ use is not even an option in any of them. Clippy never once said: &quot;Oh I see you are trying to write a document with the same structure as everyone else on the planet, will I create a non-tacky template for you?&quot;.</div> </div><p /><div>By far the worst is OpenOffice/LibreOffice. You have to manually create a numbering structure from scratch to get 1, 1.1 etc on your headings. In 2011. Seriously.</div><p /><div>And no LibreOffice, when I hit carriage return at the end of a section heading line, I don&#39;t want another line with section heading formatting, I want body-text FFS.</div> <p /><div>And no Google Docs, when I cut some bullet points and try to paste them further down in the bullet list, I don&#39;t want to randomly indent them, I&#39;m trying to bloody move them.</div><p /> <div>This is basic basic basic stuff. Anyone want to write a word processor that actually works the way humans do?</div>
 