#"Slowly changing my mind on Google+"

Like many people, I've written Google+ off multiple times in the past year. But I'm finally starting to realise that Google is in for the very long haul on this. It's not a case of putting it up there and if it doesn't get traction, kill it (a la Buzz, Wave etc). Every week they announce new features. Each one in itself is not necessarily revolutionary but helps to build an ever more impressive suite of services. And that's how I'm looking at it now. Not just a destination Social Network but a suite of social tools that I can pick and choose from as I need.

For example, yesterday whilst driving to Dublin I thought to myself that Google+ would be fantastic inside organizations as a replacement for Yammer which I have always found clunky. It turns out <a href="http://googleenterprise.blogspot.ie/2012/08/bringing-google-to-work.html">they wereannouncing exactly that feature</a> at the same time! I've tried it out and the experience is immediately far superior to Yammer.

I also find it interesting that many of the features I like about G+ are business ones. From the Live Hangouts with recording to YouTube to the Google Local pages, it is starting to feel like what I always thought LinkedIn would become but never did (companypages on LinkedIn are an absolute joke).

The fact that Vic Gundotra is willing to wade in on conversations about G+ with nobodies like me, tells me they are taking this personally. I may vehemently disagree with their slowness in rolling out a Write-API or the initial focus on "Celebrities" for the vanity URLs but I can also appreciate the consistent and methodical approach they are taking.

We Twitterites have poked fun many times over the lack of people on G+ but I have to say I was very surprised by the volume of updates when I searched for news about the Empire State Building shootings as they were happening. It seems, yet again, that the softly softly long term approach is paying off.

As for the never-ending question about whether Google+ can ever overtake Facebook or Twitter, I'm starting to see things differently and I see two different outcomes. I never thought I'd be writing this is 2012 but I think Twitter is going to be roadkill in the next 3 years. It is fundamentally not a Social Network, it is a newsfeed. I always thought it would be the plumbing for the realtime web but they have decided they want to be TMZ in 140 chars.

As I said on Google+ in that <a href="https://plus.google.com/100216868029904197029/posts/iD5pqqer2d1?hl=en">long recent thread</a>:
<blockquote>But if there is any company on the planet that should be building a global social real-time messaging infrastructure for everyone to use, it's GOOG.
<ol>
	<li>Publish an API that anyone can replicate and federate with.</li>
	<li>Submit it all as a global standard.</li>
	<li>Sign up Vodafone, Telefonica and AT&amp;T as federated partners.</li>
</ol>
Ye know, easy stuff :-)
Then we'd have a major major step forward rather than imitations of what is already there.</blockquote>
The same could be true of TV. Google could throw money at the networks in the short term to start using G+ URLs instead of Twitter hashtags at the start of every show.

I think Facebook will continue to have strong stickiness with normal people for quite a while more. It also seems to be holding on to the Tweens and Teens who have traditionally rejected whatever their older siblings used.

Again from that G+ thread:
<blockquote>On my vacation a few weeks back, I was bouncing a question around inside my head: What's next? It can't be just another Twitter or another Facebook. What is the next big idea? Will it start as a small idea like guys in Odeo scratching an itch or guys in Harvard looking for cute girls? Or something huge from day 1?

I think it might be The Internet of Things (IOT) - Finally delivering on the promise of sensors, automation and real-world data-feeds everywhere. Back in 2007 I thought the backbone for that might be Twitter. There were lots of us pumping automated info into Twitter accounts and using it as a transport protocol. I still believe in that idea, just not on Twitter.

People sharing photos, location, check-ins and status should just be the initial manifestation of that. I'll be announcing a little side project in the next few weeks involving weather data and flood warnings. Having a transport/sharing system I can trust would be amazing for this. As it is, the recorded data probably be stored in Fusion Tables and COSM, the service will run on Google infrastructure but the social bit will broadcast/shared on Twitter because they have an API and that's where the people are.

You start with the geeky data feeds and crowd-sourced information and then you use the social connections to make it useful. e.g. Waze-type info automatically re-routing you on Google Maps.

Heck, how about an NFC sensor in your car so that your phone knows it's in a car and immediately starts checking local traffic/weather/crash information generated by everyone, not some central authority. All without you having to launch Google Maps or Twitter or G+. It then alerts you in a car-friendly manner.</blockquote>
Yes I'm rambling. As I did on that thread. But the idea that Social Networks are <em>done</em> is ridiculous. We'll all look back on Twitter and Facebook in 10 years time and laugh at the crude simplistic things they facilitated, like we think of Teletext now.

More from Google+ thread:
<blockquote>My wife and kids were stuck in a huge tailback in Cavan yesterday. It was due to a three car crash. She was first to report the tailback and reason on Twitter, long before "official" channels. She then did a U turn and re-routed. Imagine how much easier everyone's lives would have been in that tailback if they'd all had that information?

And all of this stuff just <em>feels</em> like it should be built/enabled/facilitated by Google. And it can be monetized up the wazoo with location and context specific advertising.</blockquote>
As I said at the start, I had written Google+ off a long time ago. As of today, I think I was wrong. Let's see where things are at Christmas. If that Write-API is in place, it'll be a very exciting platform indeed.

&nbsp;