#"Any opinions on 15.4\" laptops?"


    Youngfella&#39;s confirmation money is burning a hole in his pocket. After a short-lived diversion towards getting a Tablet, he is now back in the market for a laptop. He currently uses my ancient Acer Aspire with a lines of dead pixels running down the middle of the screen and buttons missing from the keyboard. <p /><div>Given that his main activity is editing his card-trick videos, Netbooks were immediately cast aside. He needs something with a decent screen and some welly that costs less than 500. It ended up being pretty easy to narrow the field down to 4-5 possibilities. The spec I came up with, based on browsing what&#39;s out there was:</div> <div><ol><li>15.4&quot; screen</li><li>2-4 GB RAM</li><li>Intel i3 or similar dual-core CPU</li><li>Decent GPU (incl built-in)</li></ol><div>Some nice to haves would be:</div></div><div><ol><li>HDMI out</li><li>More than 3 USBs</li> <li>Firewire or USB 3.0</li></ol><div>When you take the first 4 spec items, you end up with a set of laptops all within 20 of each other and all compromising in different ways. We found:</div></div><div><ol><li>Samsung R540</li> <li>Acer Aspire 5742</li><li>Lenovo G560</li><li>Asus K52F</li></ol><div>It looks like we&#39;ll go with the Samsung. It has the faster 2.4GHz i3, 3GB RAM and a 320GB HDD. Downsides are a slightly washed out screen, plasticky body and poor battery life. Since this will spend 90% of its time in the house, the latter two are no big deal.</div> </div><p /><div>I was disappointed to see that Dell had nothing competitive in that 450 (inc VAT) range.</div><p /><div>Anyone have experience of these type of spec? Any other suggestions?</div>
  