#"Right, I need recommendations for dirt-cheap diesel Land Rover type thingy"


 Yesterday I read rumours of early winter snow in Ireland. We&#39;ve had a couple of winters of either &quot;surprising&quot; snow or horrible floods in Bandon. It&#39;s time to embrace my inner mucker and buy a proper farmer-style SUV. I&#39;m not talking silly frou-frou soccer-mom pretend-off-roaders, I want something that can go up a vertical cliff in low gear and do 4000 mpg on diesel.<br /> <p /><div>The preferred specs are as follows:</div><div><ol><li>Less than 5k</li><li>Mileageirrelevant</li><li>Diesel</li><li>Full-time proper 4WD</li><li>Possibly low-ratios selectable</li><li>Maybe lockablediffs</li> <li>Possibly 7 seats</li><li>Can go through Irish floods without noticing them</li><li>Can drive on snow without noticing it</li><li>Can also do the Cork-Dublin return run in one day without me going deaf or losing my fillings/sanity</li> <li>Can do 120kph *cough* comfortably</li><li>Utterly reliable (my 10 y/o 120,000 mile Mondeo has never once let me down)</li><li>Must have 8-track player with Demis Roussos carts :-)</li></ol><div>Whilst I&#39;ve long hankered after one of those black Land Rover Defenders with the exhaust going out the roof, my guess is that they fail on 10, 11 and 12?</div> </div><p /><div>So oh Twitter/Facebook/Posterous gurus, what do you recommend? Some big old Japanese yoke? I&#39;ve heard you can get 2003 Range Rovers for 13k so I assume I can get something lower down the food chain for the target 5k or less. Also any recommendations for where to buy?PreferablyMunster.</div> <p /><div>Oh and what&#39;s the story with insurance/tax on some big diesel behemoth? Did the Greens make it difficult? What mpg do these things do anyway? I can do Cork-Dublin return on a tank of petrol in the Mondeo.</div>
 