#"The Importance of Interfaces"


    <p>I&#39;ve recently been thinking about how interfaces and standards are so important.</p> <p>One challenge we have as a family with a huge number of kids is playing media when we visit various grandparents or in-laws. During the winter this is even more important. There are only so many DS games, episodes of iCarly or <a href="http://y8.com">y8.com</a> games they will play. The same is true when I&#39;m travelling and I want to chill out with a movie in a hotel and not be gouged.</p> <p>For the past year I&#39;ve tried to do this with a laptop and VGA to Scart adapter. The picture quality is pretty awful but it does work.</p> <p>Something like the new Apple TV initially looked interesting due to its small size. Then I saw the interface specs. No composite out , streaming only, no usb port, no sdcard.</p> <p>So forget that. I then looked at some of the cheap media players on Deal Extreme. They didn&#39;t look too bad but reviews were patchy. Then I heard about the Nationite HDVP-2. <a href="http://mp4nation.net/catalog/index.php?main_page=product_info&amp;cPath=60&amp;products_id=386">http://mp4nation.net/catalog/index.php?main_page=product_info&amp;cPath=60&amp;products_id=386</a></p> <p>Wow.</p> <p>1080p playback, composite/yuv/hdmi out, LAN, can take internal HDD, USB port, Sdcard slot, optional WiFi, streams from across network or uses local media, remote control, small size. And the real killer? $79!</p> <p>We&#39;ve used it a bunch of times recently and it just totally rocks.</p> <p>The best example of why a product like this, which only uses industry standard interfaces, is so useful, happened last weekend. </p> <p>My sister wanted to show her daughter&#39;s school play which was on their very cool JVC HDCam. Unfortunately the JVC uses some idiotic proprietary connector for TV-Out and she had forgotten the cable so my usual bag of wires was no use. </p> <p>We were about to shrug and give up when I suddenly thought &quot;wait a sec, what does it use for storage? &quot;. Aha, Sdcard! I popped the card out, stuck it in the side of the HDVP-2 and voila, my niece on the old CRT TV.</p> <p>Whether it&#39;s usb for charging , sdcards, audio jacks, rca jacks, sims, Bluetooth or cigarette lighters, standards and interfaces make your life easier.</p>
  