#"Simple Fix for Major Asus N53SN Laptop Sleep Recovery Problem"


 The <a href="http://uk.asus.com/Notebooks/Multimedia_Entertainment/N53SN/">Asus N53SN</a> is proving to be a great purchase. Wodges of CPU power and yet it strangely lasts a decent amount of time on battery. Unlike certain other makes, you can pop the battery out and bring a spare so it&#39;s no problem doing lots of hard-core work on the Cork-Dublin train run. <p /><div>However it has had one infuriating problem since I bought it. When you wake it up after a sleep (e.g. if you close the lid) it behaves fine for 5 mins and then freezes solid. The mouse pointer still moves but nothing else works. A hard reboot is required. I updated all the drivers and even did a full Windows re-install but to no avail. I was convinced it was a video driver issue due to the mouse thing but could not get to the bottom of it. I then started to suspect it was a hardware problem.</div> <p /><div>For giggles the other day, I went googling for the problem again and ended up on the same massive owners thread as before over on <a href="http://forum.notebookreview.com/asus-reviews-owners-lounges/563336-asus-n53sv-n53sn-sandybridge-owner-thread-118.html#post7957974">notebookreview.com</a>. But this time someone else was reporting the issue and someone had a suggestion. It was to update the Intel RST Storage Drivers. It seemed an unlikely fix and there were no updated drivers on the Asus site. But there were on <a href="http://downloadcenter.intel.com/Detail_Desc.aspx?agr=Y&amp;DwnldID=20624&amp;ProdId=2101&amp;lang=eng&amp;OSVersion=Windows%207%2C%2064-bit*&amp;DownloadType=Drivers">the Intel site</a>. And blummin eck, it flippin worked! The laptop has been perfect ever since. So if you have the same problem, I hope you find this post! Oh and don&#39;t bother with that stupid Intel hardware auto-detection Java tool garbage. It didn&#39;t do a thing for me.</div> <div></div>
 