#"My Next Radio ain't a Radio"


 I did a bit of messing this week on <a href="http://Turntable.fm">Turntable.fm</a> followed by <a href="http://music.google.com">Google Music</a> on my phone and I&#39;ve been doing some mulling.<p /><div>Google Music has been uploading my music collection to the cloud for a week. Probably another week to go. The genius bit is that the new music player on Android then shows all of your music. If a song is not on your phone and you try to play it, it&#39;ll start streaming it. You choose if you only want to do that on Wifi or 3G too.<p /><div>So this morning I drove up to collect Oisn from soccer and, as usual, had my HTC Desire paired by Bluetooth to my Lidl car stereo. Then I picked a Lou Reed song that wasn&#39;t on the phone and Google Music streamed it perfectly over 3G. Very impressed. Obviously will be rubbish in rural West Cork with the poor mobile coverage and I need to watch my data usage. But as a concept I love it.</div> <p /><div>Then you have Turntable.fm. A series of &quot;rooms&quot; dedicated to different types of music with a bunch of DJ slots available in each one. You can grab a slot and upload your music into your queue. The system then round-robin plays each DJs songs and those listening in the room can vote it up or down. Enough &quot;Lames&quot; and your song gets skipped. <a href="http://twitter.com/walter">@walter</a> described it as crack and he is 100% right. It is as close to a perfect game-play driven web-app as you can get. I&#39;ve been in and out to the 80s rooms non-stop for days.I think my DJ name will be Transit van Driver.</div> <p /><div>I&#39;ve never been much of a radio person. I&#39;ll take wall-to-wall music any day over some fools prattling-on or god-awful phone-ins. The only talk radio I ever liked was Howard Stern in SV in 1996. And that was just for laughs. But of course the problem with music radio is the lowest common denominator playlists. So I guess most of us end up listening to our own music on our own phones/ipods. But then that leads to stagnation of tastes as you are not exposed to new stuff.</div> <p /><div>Google thinks (as always) the answer is an algorithm. They have Instant Mix in Google Music. &quot;Here are more songs like the one you arelisteningto&quot;. Yawn, <a href="http://last.fm">last.fm</a> sorted that out years ago.<br /> <p /><div>Then Gordon Murray (<a href="https://twitter.com/#!/murrion">@murrion</a>) nailed it &quot;<a href="https://twitter.com/#!/murrion/status/79517724014944257">Wonder if turntable.fm could stream to it</a>&quot;.</div> <p /><div>Imagine the music you listen to in your car is what a bunch of different people in specific rooms on <a href="http://turntable.fm">turntable.fm</a> are playing, streamed to your phone over 3G and then to your dumb head-unit? Bluetooth based thumbs-up/thumbs-down and Room-Switcher for changing songs.</div> <p /><div>Jam in some ads or a subscription service and I&#39;ve got My Next Radio.</div></div></div>
 